Hello everyone.
Welcome to the forum basics.
Cut along lecture and this lecture will just be cutting through all the concepts we previously discussed
in The Last Lecture.
Let's go to the editor and get started OK.
Here I am at the editor.
The first thing we're going to do is see the into a new folder I just made called Django level three.
And then they're going to actually create the project so I will call my Django dash admen command line
tool will say start the project and we can just call this project whatever we want I'll call it something
like basic forms and this should start off the project and after that we can start off the application.
So I will see the into the top level basic forms and then call it jingo admen star app to start application.
Now we can call this just basic app using simple names here.
Now if I expand this I see the folders of files that I was looking for.
And let's actually create our templates folder that goes onto the top level project folder create a
new folder call it templates and then inside of this I want to create another folder that matches the
basic app name.
And this is where the applications touched him.
All templates are going to go.
It will create a new file here.
Call index.
Let each team will and we'll create another file.
And this one we can call something like form underscore page each T.M..
So under this index each HTML that's just going to be the home page all type each time L and we'll give
the title home say heading 1 welcome to home page.
Save that in in the form page.
That's we're actually going to be using template tagging and doing a lot more.
So we'll just leave it with the title forms for now.
But we'll do a lot more at this page later on what we need to do is actually are setting up a profile
so it knows where the templates are and that we have an application that we just made.
So we'll open up settings and then let's set up the template directory.
So it's going to be template underscore the are and all synthetical to OS path that join and I want
to join the base directory with templates.
And then what I want to do is scroll down to where we have installed apps Mixtura include the app I
just made which is basic app and then continue to templates and pass in that template directory just
made up.
So I will save this.
So now my settings are ready to go.
And now we can get started actually create in the forms which means inside of my basic app going to
right click Create a new file call it forms that hi enter and then it's going to look very similar to
building up a model we'll say from Django import forms.
Previously we had done import models.
They'll create a class called it's just a very basic form named class.
And then we'll say form start form again.
We basically that models that model last time.
Hopefully this feels really familiar.
Just using the same paradigm and then we'll say name let's create a couple of fields.
So now sort of making database fields we're making essentially what our form fields those text inputs
text areas cetera.
So this will be a character field.
Or the actual name.
Also have this person provide an email in their form say forms dot let's say an email field
and then we can say we'll have a text area field to the way you do that you say forms as in a character
field and incited this.
You can specify a particular widget and you can check out the documentation for a list of all the widgets
available but essentially we do just call forms and then passen the widget method or widget attribute
that corresponds to the actual type.
You would specify in the HMO.
So remember we were making forms of to mail with specify it's a type text area input.
Here we're just specifying it as a widget inside of this character field.
You can kind of see how this sort of match up later on when we connect this to a model.
Right now we're just using a very basic form.
Later on will see how to use model forms.
OK.
That's really all we need to do here.
Are the forms up PI file.
What we can do now is set up the views that will actually return these pages correctly.
So we'll say from.
And I can just say from DOT import forms or I could also say from basic app import forms.
It's basically the same.
And let's create an index view.
Just get that out of the way.
That's going to be a simple request and will return render function with the request and let's pass
in the actual file we want to do.
So that goes under templates which is going to be that basic app index Ledwidge Timo and we'll start
off with a very basic view before we actually check for the post so the most basic view you can get
for a form look something like this.
So whatever your form name view you want it takes in a request and then insight of this ongoing to say
the form is equal to imported forms dot and whatever the actual class you call that form you're telling
me you called it form name so that's fine.
So we'll make an instance of that form name class here and I'm going to return with the render function
passen request like we always do pasand the page I want to show.
In this case I want to say basic.
And we call that page form underscore page HVM T.M..
And then finally the context dictionary will give it the key form and we'll passen that actual form
object.
And again you can be flexible whatever you want to call these things.
Maybe you don't like that and using the word form so much or basic so much.
It's really up to you whatever you want to call these.
Now that we have these views set up we want to make sure that we actually point your L's in the right
way.
So I come to the project YOUR else that PI file.
We could also have you URLs up PI file point to the applications you URLs and do it that way remember
there was including this other you are l configuration which do a simple function of B for now keep
things pretty simple.
So let's add in your I'll call here.
Well first we actually need to import from our application is say from basic app import views that we
can call them we use the function method here.
Number that's this very first one where we just use the syntax.
So come down and then say your L and I'm going to specify for the home page gnashes carrot symbol dollar
sign using regular expressions and then say start index and we'll give it the name index.
And then I like always having the first to be the home page and the Ottoman site and then everything
else being your actual pages.
So I'll say regular expression carat symbol and let's have the extension for this be something like
form page truly up to you whatever you want to call it.
This basically just says OK if you go to your L slash form page and anything after that it's going to
take you to the views dot and then the view.
In this case we called it form underscore namers or view and we'll give it the name form underscore
a name.
All right.
So that should be all we need.
For though your patterns and now let's actually go with the templates and show you how to use the template
tagging to actually inject that form our index page looks pretty simple.
We'll add one more thing that says go to slash form page to fill out the form.
Let's double check that that was actually your L I gave slash form page.
Yes it was.
And then on the form page we're going to let's put this all in a div that we can use later.
I'll give it the container class.
I haven't imported bootstrap yet but that's OK.
We'll show that when we kind of want to improve the site.
But let's keep everything super basic and I'm going to just say form here.
Again I'm not even checking if there is a form under the same form.
Let's save that and see if we actually can get everything to work.
Hopefully we didn't forget anything.
I'm going to say Python managed up-I run server and see if there's any errors that pop up to us OK I'm
not going to copy this and bring in over my browser so it looks like we've got the home page working
out.
We see go to slash form page to fill out the form.
Let's see if that also works.
Go to a forum page and we can see the actual form we have name email and text.
It looks super ugly.
Now we see if I type something and there's not even a submit button here.
So it's pretty bland but we can see that we're actually starting to get the very basics of a form here
is that text area widget.
Great.
Now let's add some stuff to actually improve this.
And most of it is going to happen on the form page on each T.M. and in the actual forms that PI file.
First thing I want to do is let's just actually make this look good since we're going to be looking
at it quite a lot.
I will say here in the head of mite's TMF files I'll paste in the link to bootstrap.
Just going to use bootstrap 3 for now.
Keep things simple and also do it in the next let each team l save that and let's put all of this inside
of a container class and let's put that inside of a Jumbotron just to make the home page look a little
nicer.
We'll grab these two headings and then put them inside these divs.
Save that and then for the form page we have to add in quite a bit.
So we have a container class so that works out for us.
But notice we actually don't even have any form tags and those form tags.
So the basic form h HTML tags those are not made for you when you call form here.
So we need to do is actually have those provided that way you can say what you want to do.
Although we won't worry about class or action for now you can worry about class when you want to style
this a little more with bootstrap.
But for now this div container should be enough.
Let's add in a heading here that says fill out the form save that and then I'm going to request a form
as a underscore.
And that's going to request each of those form which is to be instead of a paragraph tag.
That way they don't go from left to right but instead we get that actual line break and they go from
top to bottom and then we also need inside of these foreign tags to ask for the input.
And also as a quick note I have the method right now being post inside of the form lowercase or capital.
Either way it should work.
So we'll capitalize it.
So it's really clear there.
And I want the input to be type.
Let's make it submit and we don't really have to give it a name for now we could give it a class if
we want it to look a little nicer can say PTEN and then it's in primary when those bootstrap classes.
Now let's give it a value.
So we actually see something inside the button and we'll hit save.
So now I'm going to grab your Allegan see what it looks like.
Bringing that in.
Obviously the home page looks a lot nicer with that Jumbotron.
And then let's go to form page.
See what that ends up looking like.
And this looks way nicer with the bootstrap fill out form.
Can see stuff is looking good but notice if I hit submit.
Well let's actually fix that e-mail Shamila hit submit and on getting an error.
C s r of f work verification failed request to abort it.
So remember as I mentioned the previous lecture we need to have that tag there in order to have the
security that we need to make sure users are safe from submitting their form or something data to some
other Web site.
So as I mentioned a lot of these forms are going to break if you don't have that tag which is a good
thing.
Keeps you a safe programmer.
So let's add in that token we'll save it and you can add it above or below the form should work the
same.
Then going to refresh the page and make sure it's working and to do this I'm actually probably going
to need to restart the server.
I will say Python managed a high run server and then let's come back to this again.
And now when I come to the page and you have to not just refresh.
You have to go back to it here.
Let's see if I type some stuff out.
I will actually try accepting some things so if I hit submit.
Notice that over here on the bottom there's a bunch of get calls.
But now I get a post here.
So it's actually except in the information.
Now let's show you how you can do stuff with that data.
So we'll edit our view coming back to views that pie we have our very basic form you doesn't really
do anything though when you actually post the data.
So we're as we were mentioning in the previous lecture if you just have this view and this form you
have a good looking form you have the tokens so it's secure but you're not doing anything with that
data.
Once it gets posted to you.
So we're going to do is come back to views and actually show you a very simple example of something
you could do it with it.
You're not going to just print out the data into the console but this will show you an idea of how you
can actually grab that data later I'll show you a much more complicated things you can do with that
data.
Right now keep things simple and just print out whatever the person puts into the form directly into
the console.
And what I'll do to start off is I have the form will form that form name that's fine.
When the collapse of trees we get a little more room here and then the first thing I want to do is check
if the request
then call the method attribute is equal to post meaning someone actually hit submit and posted something
back.
I'm going to need to pass in their request.
Now I will say form is equal to forms the form name and then passing that request not post and the pending
on what plugins you have if you downloaded some Gengel plug ins.
You'll have a lot more help and syntax highlighting here.
So keep that in mind and then we'll say if the form and it has a method called is valid which is essentially
a boolean check to see if the form is actually valid.
And we'll talk a lot more about custom validation checks later on.
Right now this should automatically turn into valid as long as it works of the T.M. inputs like the
at symbol in an email input.
So again if the form is valid in the request method is post I can do something here.
So this is where your do something Kodo at work.
So let's show you a very simple thing to do with it.
And then just grab the data and print it out.
Probably would never actually do this but just show that it works.
So I'll say validation
success.
So he certainly validated that data from the post and then I'll show you how to access that data.
So you grab your form object and then offer that one way to do it is by grabbing cleaned underscore
data and then those actual fields that you had in your forms if you could have forms up higher remember
we had these object class class object attributes the name email and text coming back here.
That's what you passen as the key.
So I can passen name here.
And then I can print this out directly into the council and the show a little bit of nicer formatting
that won't just print that out but I will say name space and then we're going to do this again for the
other two fields.
So I'll do a paste here and I'm going to say email and then I'm going to say here text and if it is
ever going too fast for you you can always reference the notes and you can reference the presentation
the slides that is for kind of a walkthrough of the steps we're doing here.
And then we have e-mail and then whatever text they happen to put in a text area.
OK.
So we'll save that the render stays the same.
And now let's bring our let's quit the server and run it again.
We shouldn't have to do this but just to make sure that everything got posted as a change and bringing
our browser.
OK so here it is at the home page or we're going to do is go to slash form page we'll fill out the form.
So I'll say my name is Jose my name.
Hello at gmail dot com.
And then some random texts.
If I hit submit now we see it here.
Rinse it out in the consul Jose emails Hello Jim about COM texts etc. and that is the very basics of
a jingle form.
Hopefully you can see how powerful Django is just with the most basic form you can grab data that the
user input it and easily work with it and you had the advantage of just having it put essentially to
very small template tags in the form.
A lot easier will be seen in the past.
OK thanks everyone if you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
I would definitely suggest that you try coding this out on your own just using the notes as a guide
and the slides as a guide.
Thanks I'll see you at the next lecture.